To know where you are, as far as God is concerned.
That’s the main thing, isn’t it?
We are here for that, to be one with God,
to be union with his power, to be his instruments.
And how our connections get loose,
and how we can to correct it,
we should try to understand that.
First of all, we must realize
that you are not to think about it.
If you start thinking too much about it,
then you have seen that you do something funny
which you should not have done.
Do not plan out too much about it, also,
because, in this country, if people start planning out,
they’ll get all the planning done.
For example, they have to go for a walk:
then they must have proper shoes,
they must have proper sticks, they
must have this, they must have that,
and they must have gloves, and they must have everything,
and they never go out.
They are so exhausted with the planning itself.
In the same way, it happens with Sahaja Yoga.
It very much happens the same way with Sahaja Yoga,
I have seen that
though I have told you not to plan it out,
not to think about it, still you go on doing it
and that is how you get into problems;
that by thinking you cannot correct yourself.
What you can do is to know that you can put bandhans
or you can give yourself a balance with your hands.
You have to move your hands and not your brain. All right?
Our brains are moving and hands and feet never move.
And out of proportion our brains are moving
but our hands and feet do not move.
This is the society which H.G. Wells had described,
I can see it very clearly,
that you have more brains than your deftness
and then your understanding.
Your fingers are not so sensitive
and the brain leads you to artificiality.
So, you are not to use your thinking
for correcting your chakras.
Now should I write it down in golden words?
That you cannot think about it and sort it out.
This is one thing people do not understand.
Now we have got mantras for different chakras.
Every chakra has got a mantra which you know.
If you do not know, you should find out.
Now, if one chakra is catching,
then you work on that chakra only
and develop your mantra on that.
For example, supposing you have
to say something for your heart.
Then, first of all, you must ask for forgiveness from God.
That means your attention has not been
so much as it should have been on the Spirit.
Or, if you have done any mistakes,
ask for forgiveness, you ask for forgiveness.
Now, you ask for forgiveness from your heart.
Even doing with hand can be artificial, you understand that?
It could be just ritualistic - but from your heart.
Whatever you have to say, you say it from your heart.
Ask for forgiveness from your heart - not think about it.
You see, this is the trouble is. If I say something
then you start thinking about it, and then you said then
“Now, I have to take out my attention from the center,”
and then you start taking out your attention. You cannot.
With your brain, you cannot take out
your attention from anywhere.
It’s only through your hands, or movement
of your hands, or by saying mantras you bring it.
Do you understand that point? Absolutely clear-cut.
Many people think that if they pay attention to something
and pull their attention - you cannot.
But what you can do, is to, when you are saying the mantra,
put your attention without thought to that particular chakra.
So you master that chakra ultimately,
the one which is a weakness can become your mastery.
But if you think, then you are catching again the heart much more.
You have known that by thinking you catch your right side
in the sense that it starts overacting,
it gets over-activated, and left side gets frozen up
by which heart is catching.
Your ego develops which engulfs your heart.
So the more you think about it,
how to correct your ego, the worse you are.
You fight it.
So then we know that you have to give a balance,
bring down your ego - with your hand,
with massaging, you can bring it down,
because in your hand it is flowing, whether you are catching or not catching, flow from your hand is there
- the flow from your hand is there. You may not even receive from me but there is flow already started,
it’s germinated, little bit is always there.
Use that to massage your head, bring down your ego.
Then for heart also, do not think about it but give it,
or you put your hand towards it.
Direct the vibrations but don’t think at that time.
This is the important thing.
If you are thinking and directing, it cannot be directed
because your attention is engulfed in the thinking process.
Do you understand that point?
And here, the problem is people think too much
and talk too much.
I mean, they talk about everything.
They know everything.
It is such a wasteful habit of thinking
and then talking about it.
Everybody is a monarch here because of ego.
So now please tell your ego,
“You please keep shut - now we know you too well.”
Try to push it back as much as you can,
with force sometimes, bring it back, like that.
Try to bring it to its normal position
and you will be amazed once it goes
to its normal position you’ll feel very much lighter.
So this is to be done with your hand.
You can use oil to rub on your body, if you have to rub.
You can use even powder or
anything for having less friction,
but it is through massage, through giving bandhans,
by taking it out, or through nimboo [lemon]
or you can use even an orange or something like that,
Try to take out these vibrations
through these mediums and not through thinking.
Through thinking, you cannot do it.
Once you think, you have no power over yourself.
There’s a barrier between the Spirit and you,
because you are thinking through your ego.